Alright,
in this video, we are going to take a look
at internationalization,
and how it relates to Spring MVC.
Now,
internationalization is often abbreviated as i18n,
and that is just the first letter of internationalization,
the i,
then the 18 characters in the middle
of internationalization
with the following n.
We also see references to l10n,
for localization.
And I want to point out
this is a really,
really broad topic
dealing with different languages,
left-to-right, right-to-left languages.
A lot of character sets and things like that,
so it's quite a complex topic,
especially when you start getting to different currencies
and layouts.
In a Spring MVC context,
we're generally looking at the support
for different languages,
and what we're going to be diving into more
is how we can customize the resource bundle
to find text strings,
so it is a much broader topic
when you start looking at all the nuances
of different languages and character sets.
Here,
we are looking at just setting simply String properties,
so we can set up our application to be dynamic
and sensitive to different language codes.
So the main thing that we're going to be looking at
is the accept-language in the request header,
and in that we have a scheme of language
where en-
and my example on the screen there is for English
and US is for the country code.
And these are governed by a set of standards.
And this originally came up around 2001
and I looked at the RFC 3066
and there's a lot of chatter,
and I didn't see when it was officially ratified,
so I don't have a date for you there,
but that did come out in the 2001,
and generally the language codes
are governed by ISO 639.
And this sets up a standard of the language codes.
And then the region codes are governed by ISO 3166.
And now the region codes,
generally,
probably 90% of the time they're looking at countries
from what I've glanced at the official list.
But,
it can refer to specific regions and territories
and things like that, so,
it can be broader,
but generally what we're seeing
is that impractical use
are going to be tied to countries.
Now, locale detection:
this is how we determine
what locale to use.
And the default behavior is to use the Accept-Language
header.
And this is passed in an HTTP header with a request.
Now Spring,
it can also be configured to use a system.
The system property from the JVM,
a cookie, or some other custom parameter.
Now the custom parameter,
you'll see a lot of examples of that when you Google
Spring MVC and internationalizations.
Almost all the time they're going to be showing you
how to set up that custom parameter
and they kind of skip over that Accept-Language part.
And this is handy because you can set up a URL parameter
on custom so that you can swap in and out.
What you're going to see is your browser
is normally tied to your operating system,
the configuration of your operating system.
So me being in the U.S.,
mine is English-U.S. based,
and that's kind of something when you first open up
your machine and you set it up,
you're probably going to be selecting the language
that you want,
so as in Europe,
I might be doing French, or German,
or some other language depending on where I'm at
so that's something that you set up initially,
and then as you use your system
and like install Firefox and Chrome,
they are going to look at your operating system to pull
that in,
so that custom parameter can be handy,
and if you have some requirements
of like having an English site, and a French site
and a German site,
and allowing the users to swap that,
that is another custom feature, handy feature of Spring MVC
that you can leverage.
Now,
we spoke about the different ways
a specifically the AcceptHeaderLocaleResolver,
that is the Spring Boot default,
so if you don't define anything else under Spring Boot,
that is what's going to get configured.
Now,
you can set a system parameter
in your application.properties file
to use a FixedLocaleResolver,
and that's going to use the locale of the JVM.
And the JVM, most of the time,
in most typical situations,
is going to be inheriting the locale
from your operating system.
Now, you also have available a CookieLocaleResolver
and a SessionLocaleResolver
where you can pull the locale from a cookie property
or a SessionLocaleResolver.
Honestly, these last two,
I don't see those used very much.
I'm sure they're out there,
so don't come back and say hey we're using this
all the time,
I know there's use cases,
but to be honest I don't see those used too often.
The most generally accepted one to use
is going to be the AcceptHeaderLocaleResolver.
As I mentioned,
changing the locale browsers are typically going to be tied
to the operating system.
There are plugins available
to allow you to easily change locale.
Now,
some of the browsers are going to require you to install
language packs for the locales that you'll want to be using,
so you will need to go in
and do a little browser configuration.
And that is going to vary by the browser
that you're using, so,
Firefox is going to be different from Chrome,
Chrome is going to be different from Safari.
And, I'm guessing that anything by Microsoft
is going to be different from all of the above.
Now, the next thing we want to look at
are resource bundles.
We've already seen the messages.properties
and how we can use that,
and what we have is a way to set up a hierarchy
of messages,
so we can define a messages for language,
and then region,
which in my example here would be English and U.S.
So a locale of en-US would match
messages_en_US.properties.
Now what's important here,
is if no match is found,
you can default down to just a language code.
And so for example,
en-GB for Great Britain wouldn't match
a messages_en_GB,
and in this case it would ignore a _US.properties file.
But if that's not found,
you can set up a higher level default
of messages_en.properties,
so this can be important depending on the region
because both the U.S. and Great Britain,
technically we both speak English,
but there are a lot of different nuances in the languages,
just like Spanish in Spain is radically different
from Spanish in Mexico,
which is completely different from Spanish in Brazil, so.
These are just different examples, so,
if we had Spanish, you could handle all the nuances
of those languages.
Now, you can get a pretty complex hierarchy
depending on the needs of your application.
The last one would be messages.properties
so just keep in mind when you're working with this
you do have this capability of saying
I want something for English in Great Britain,
English in the U.S.,
Spanish in Spain, Spanish in Brazil,
and then you can default down to just Spanish,
and then you can default down to a general default
for that property, so,
you can get pretty specific with this.
I've worked with it in the past,
and this is a pretty versatile tool set
that you have to work with when you're defining properties.
Now in the next video,
we are going to take a look at setting this up,
and we'll take a look at how it gets resolved,
and how we can set up different message strings
and have those displayed on our screen
through a Thymeleaf command,
and we'll see how we can change different strings
depending on the locale that we have set in the browser.